[MUSIC]
This lecture we'll talk about
the various trend [INAUDIBLE].
Technological trends that have led to
the incident of things, say revolution.
It's a overused word, but
let's try to use that right now.
So there are lots of different
trends that have led to this,
led to the incorporation of things,
technology into devices today.
And so we'll talk about those things.
And it sort of crept up
on us over the years,
but now there's this convergence
where the situation is right.
Everything works and
you can really do a lot of the things
that you see in these IoT devices today.
So there are several trends.
One trend is cost,
is the straight cost of devices,
so things have gotten a lot cheaper.
Computational technology has gotten
a lot cheaper than it used to be.
Now, these are extremes, but take ENIAC.
Early machine, 1945, very early.
Not the earliest, but very early machine.
At the time, it cost almost half a million
dollars which in today's dollars is a lot
more than that, at the time.
So that was expensive, very expensive for
the cheapest available machine.
Now you can get a laptop for $500.
You can get one cheaper than that,
you can get one more expensive, but
you can get a very capable laptop for
$500.
So things have gotten a lot
cheaper over the years.
And by the way, I'm saying you can
get a laptop for $500, an IoT device.
The computational ability of
it is a lot less than laptops.
So it will be a lot cheaper than $500.
But the point is that over time
computational technology has
gotten a lot cheaper.
And so it's within the reach of what
you could add on to a lot of different
devices.
So you wouldn't have wanted to
take your standard car in 1945 and
add an ENIAC to it because it would
add $500,000 worth of cost, right?
But now you can add on
some low cost device and
get the benefits of computational
technology without too much cost.
So this is a picture of ENIAC,
the original.
It is big.
Big and expensive.
So this is another thing that's changed.
It also has a lot of wires.
If you look at it,
the way they programmed it was with wires.
A lot of wiring going on in there.
Manual wiring.
So this is a picture of it and it was big.
So that's another trend.
Hardware size.
Things have become smaller.
Now that old ENIAC there was no possible
way you were going be able to get that
thing and fit it into a device,
into a thing.
So that old ENIAC was, say approximately,
1,800 square feet, 27 tons.
It was a big thing.
But a laptop today is small,
small and light.
And IoT devices are smaller and
lighter than that, so think,
computational technology has
also shrunk and gotten lighter,
to the point that it can be incorporated
in lots of different devices.
So this is just a size comparison.
See, so we've got ENIAC over there,
different lighting but
basically the same machine,
and then we've got a laptop.
And you can see how the computational
technology has just vastly shrunk to
the point where you can actually
incorporate it into devices.
Now, another big trend that helps
make IoT possible is the fact
that computational ability has
grown dramatically since, say, 45.
So in 45, that ENIAC that you saw,
that got approximately 5,000
instructions per second.
Now, a standard laptop 18 billion,
now this is plus or
minus, right, but 18 billion easy.
That's a dramatic improvement,
and what that buys you,
what that gives you is a fact that you
can implement a lot more features.
There are many things that you couldn't
have dreamed of being able to do back
in '45 with a computer that you
can now handle because you have so
many more computations to
play with in a unit of time.
So, for instance, speech to text, right?
That's common in phones today, right?
Where you talk and
it interprets your speech.
There's no way with 5,000 instructions
per second you could do that in
anywhere near real time.
Audio processing, network communication
all these things that you can do now
that require lots of computation and
it just wasn't possible with old machines.
So with modern machines there is so
much computational ability,
their clock rates are so
fast and there is parallelism.
These things are multi-course,
you got multiple processes in one device.
There is so
much computation ability you can.
You can do so many more things
that were thought of back then and
couldn't have dreamed of back then, but
now, we see there's so much you can do.
So, it makes it more practical
using devices today to implement
the features we're
interested in implementing.
Another trend is Internet access.
So, in '45 the Internet didn't exist.
Networking wasn't there, but
Internet access has improved.
So, the Internet is reachable
from a lot of places.
First, it exists.
Right?
It didn't used to exist.
But now it's also true that
in lots of different places,
almost everywhere, you can access
the Internet through some mechanism.
Now this depends on what country you're
in and how much money your country has.
Some parts of the world poor parts
of the world have less access.
We're in the US you have
pretty good access.
Wherever you wanna be you can
access it directly through wi-fi,
you can access it through jacks in
the wall I mean we have ethernet jacks in
the wall right here you can do it
wirelessly you can do it everywhere.
Now different parts of
the world have less access,
if you just look at this map, you can
see the lighter parts are less access.
Most of Africa, a lot of Africa has less
access is just because they're out of
reach of many different, a lot of
the infrastructure that's necessary.
But there are some place like India,
that actually lower,
in fact, I question this map.
I don't thing it's as bad as
what's being stated on here, but
it is generally true that there are parts
of the country, poor parts of the world
rather, where Internet
access is harder to find.
But generally it's greatly
improved over time.
Also the fact that you can do
Internet access wirelessly.
That actually helps a whole lot
because running cables is expensive.
Where putting up a wireless
router is much less expensive.
Putting up a cell tower that
costs a certain amount of money,
but given the expanse that it covers
It's much more cost efficient than having
to run wires into everybody's home.
So wireless access is one of those
things that's ubiquitous now, and
it makes IoT technology much more
usable and much more possible.
Data costs.
So the cost of Internet
access is fairly low.
Now this definitely varies
depending on where you are.
It's never low enough for me.
I don't like how much I have to pay
every month on my cell phone bill or for
my cable bill, stuff like that.
But it's low enough that a lot
of people can afford it.
In poor countries, this is not necessarily
the case, but that's changing.
Bandwidth is high.
So what this means is that you
can transmit lots of data fast.
And that actually enables
a lot of different features.
So streaming movies for instance, right?
If you want to stream video,
you need a lot of bandwidth, right?
As opposed to just sending data.
If you want to send email,
you don't need a lot of bandwidth.
Email has a certain amount of text and
it doesn't take much data to transmit.
But if you want to support video,
you need pretty good bandwidth
to support it in real time.
To send the frames, lots of pixels,
it takes you a lot of bandwidth.
But bandwidth is available
in a lot of places.
And wirelessly too.
So you can, through wi-fi or
some other type of wireless technology,
cell phones, you can actually get enough
bandwidth to be able to see
videos through that technology.
So the bandwidth actually has enabled a
lot of different features in IoT devices.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]